# Advanced_Web_Final_Project
A MVC application for managing events and users participating in them.

## Application Instructions
To use the event manager, users can begin by first creating a user account or using one of the seeded accounts from the initializer as seen below. Users can then choose one of the User CRUD options in the Nav bar. Users can also choose to create an event in the nav bar or interact with the list of events with the other three CRUD options. Users can also choose to join an event, creating a many to many relationship entity known as an EventParticipant. If the user wishes to renounce their attendance, they can delete this EventParticipant entity as well. Users can also view choose to view what members are participating in what events.\
**Note:** Users should be aware that deleting their user account cascade delete any events they may have created. 

## Required Packages to Download
Users may have to open Package Manager Console and run the following commands.

dotnet add package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore\
dotnet add package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer\
dotnet add package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Tools

The user should then clean and rebuild their solution to make the program work.

## Seeded Account Login Information
User 1: 
Username: Fred Flinstone
Password: EatFruityPebbles

User 2:
Username: Tom Cat
Password: Mousecapades

User 3: 
Username: Dale Gribble
Password: SquirrelTactics!

## **<ins>File Structure</ins>**
(**Note:** Folders are underlined)
> <ins>**Controllers**</ins>
> > **EventController** - Contains Get and Post for Event CRUD operations.\
> > **EventParticipantController** - Contains Join information and Get and Post for EventParticipant Create and Delete.\
> > **HomeController** - Contains ReadAll call to fill Index event charts.\
> > **UserController** - Contains Get and Post for Event CRUD operations.

> <ins>**Migrations**</ins>
> > **20250503141620_Mig01.cs** - Migration created after database was created.\
> > **ApplicationDbContextModelSnapshot.cs** - Autogenerated by MVC after migration.

<ins>**Models**</ins>
  > <ins>**Entities**</ins>
  > > **Event.cs** - Entity for events that people can create and join.\
  > > **EventParticipant.cs** - Entity for the many to many join that people create when they sign up for an event.\
  > > **User.cs** - Entity for the accounts the users use to authenticate their actions.

  > <ins>**ViewModels**</ins>
  > > **EventDetailsVM.cs**\
  > > **UserDetailsVM.cs**  
  > **ErrorViewModel** - Autogenerated View Model

<ins>**Services**</ins>
> **ApplicationDbContext.cs**\
> **DbEventParticipantRepository** - Contains Create, Read, and Retrieve by ID functions for EventParticipant entities.\
> **DbEventRepository.cs** - Contains CRUD and Retrieve by ID functions for Event entities.\
> **DbUserRepository.cs** - Contains CRUD functions for User entities and a function for confirming a User's input credentials compared to existant User entities.\
> **IEventParticipantRepository.cs** - Interface for the EventParticipantRepository.\
> **IEventRepository.cs** - Interface for the EventRepository.\
> **Initializer.cs** - Seeds database with three pre-made user accounts and events.\
> **IUserRepository.cs** - Interface for the UserRepository. 

<ins>**Views**</ins>
  > <ins>**Event**</ins>
  > > **Create.cshtml** - View for creating Events with a user authentication check.\
  > > **Delete.cshtml** - View for deleting Events with a user authentication check.\
  > > **Details.cshtml** - View for seeing an Event entity's details.\
  > > **Update.cshtml** - View for Updating an Event's details with a user authentication check.
  
  > <ins>**EventParticipant**</ins>
  > > **Join.cshtml** - Creates a new EventParticipant entity when an authenticated user wants to participate in an event.\
  > > **Leave.cshtml** - Delete's a new EventParticipant entity when an authenticated user wants to withdraw from an event.\
  > > **Participants.cshtml** - Shows a list of EventParticipants for an event who have marked an interest in attending. 
  
  > <ins>**Home**</ins>
  > > **Index.cshtml** - Index used to display the future events and passed events list. Also uses Ajax to move events from Future to Passed.\
  > > **Privacy.cshtml** - Autogenerate view to input privacy policy information into.

  > <ins>**Shared**</ins>
  > > **_Layout.cshtml** - Contains Page layout information such as the navbar.\
  > > **_ValidationScriptsPartial.cshtml** - Autogenerated by the MVC.\
  > > **Error.cshtml** - Autogenerated by the MVC

  > <ins>User</ins>
  > > **Create.cshtml** View for creating a User.\
>   > **Delete.cshtml** View for deleting a User. \
>   > **Index.cshtml** Contains a list of every user stored in the program's databse.\
>   > **Update.cshtml** - View for Updating a User's details with a user authentication check. (WARNING: NON-FUNCTIONAL!)

> **_ViewImports.cshtml** - Autogenerated by the MVC.\
> **_ViewStart.cshtml** - Autogenerated by the MVC.

> <ins>**appsetting.json**</ins>
> > **appsettings.Development.json** - Autogenerated by the MVC.

**AI Disclosure**  
Policy to AI has not changed since the project proposal or the user stories document. 
I did not use AI during the final coding process. 

